The governing body has always felt a keen responsibility to live up to Jesus' command.
Feed my lands, shepherd my little sheep.
Today's technology makes the governing body feel like family.
But did the worldwide brotherhood in times past enjoy such a strong bond with the governing body?
Let's go back to January of 1945.
Brothers and Orren, friends, set out on a tour of Latin America that ended up with conventions in North America, it took four months.
The purpose was to visit branches already established, to organize new branches, to forward the movement of the kingdom preaching work.
The service tours often combine supervising operations of the branch, giving talks of conventions, dedicating new facilities, overnight visits to remote missionary homes, followed by evening meetings with a local congregation, all this packed into a few days.
They provided instruction on field ministry, how to conduct meetings, but also what was taking place in the worldwide field.
And then, they would take time to go out into the field ministry with them.
One such visit included a stopover in Guatemala, where they visited a very small congregation of just eight people.
Their heart was in the preaching work. I can speak from my own experience that the missionaries were very close to Brother Norr's heart.
So, after sending them first to Latin America, he was eager to see the progress.
And so, he visited them, and then over the years, he traveled the world.
And he visited as many missionary homes as he possibly could.
He privately met each missionary personally, to talk over the challenges, to arrange for better accommodations, if needed, to assess the potential for growth,
or even to establish a new branch, or arrange to purchase new property, if needed.
Brother Norr loved the Brotherhood, especially missionaries in branch personnel.
And he would take an opportunity of a 15 or 20-minute stopover in a train station or an airport, to give encouragement, or to help them to advance the preaching work.
Brother Norr had deep concern for the welfare of the brothers in the war-torn countries of Europe.
Brother Norr and Henshel, they traveled to Britain, France, Switzerland, Belgium, the Netherlands, and Scandinavia in November 1945.
Imagine just few months after the war ended, the railroad track was destroyed, bridges were destroyed.
So, there were no good connections between the cities.
It was not a tourist travel, it was really a hard work.
But, even this, they did for loving the brothers and helping and encouraging the brothers in these countries.
After visiting the Friends in War-torn Europe, then brothers Norr and Henshel embarked on a very ambitious and extensive 47,000 mile tour.
They visited some lands where there were fewer, even no witnesses.
If no branch operated in a country they visited, they connected with local congregations in private homes.
They attended their meetings, and they accompanied the local publishers to the homes of interested ones for group meetings.
They often rented venues for public meetings.
Brothers Norr and Henshel went on the streets to advertise the talk that evening.
Then Brother Norr himself even rode with bicycle parades to advertise his talks.
These meetings attracted hundreds of interested ones, even though in one city, there was a threatening note that was received.
Well, things don't always turn out as planned.
Brother Norr and Brother Henshel had a service tour of countries in Africa.
One of those was Nigeria, and they were two give talks at two conventions.
One of those conventions was 400 miles away and involved a road trip.
So they got off to an early start at 3.30 in the morning.
On the end of the trip, they started to have car problems.
Those car problems turned into a ruling 18-hour delay, and they realized they weren't going to make the convention.
So they decided to go back to the branch in Lagos.
But the return trip took 24 hours to jungle roads and additional car problems.
They get back to the branch, they take a very brief rest, and they're on to the next branch.
Brother Norr loved the brothers, and he enjoyed being with him.
I remember very well how after his concluding talk, he waved to the brothers.
And we, in the audience, jug out handkerchiefs and waved back for many minutes.
But that was not all.
He and Brother Henshel then went to the railroad station to say farewell to the brothers,
leaving in special trains.
They called out Al-Feederzein, a Guterreise, and they stayed there till 10-30 at night doing that.
They thought not of their comfort, but they thought of the brothers.
A request to hold a large special meeting in Athens in 1952 was not granted by the authorities because of religious interference.
But not wanting to miss an opportunity to encourage the Greek brothers.
Brother Norr came up with an alternate plan.
He and Brother Henshel would take taxis to the homes of local brothers,
where they would give a talk for approximately 20 minutes.
Then they would go on to another home, even though they risk arrest because of meeting together.
They were able to meet with 905 of our Greek brothers.
In describing that day, Brother Norr wrote,
it was one of the most blessed experiences of our lives.
Brother Franz visited Spain many times, but during the 50s, our work was under ban.
Brother Franz wanted to encourage the local brothers, but he was especially concerned for their safety.
On this one event, Brother Franz and his driver decided to park their car near the home of their host, a certain Brother Garcia, who was a mechanic.
So with the hood of the car open, they asked a neighbor, is there a mechanic in the area?
Of course, he was referred to Brother Garcia.
Brother Garcia then looked at the car and said, your car needs to come into my shop.
That was the opportunity for Brother Franz to meet his local brothers and sisters.
When it was time to walk to the meeting later that day, Brother Franz decided to wear the beret,
and a sheepskin coat typical for the area so that he would safely blend in with his brothers.
Well, these brothers were a very loving and courageous man.
They worked very hard to keep the brothers and countries under ban fired up with zeal, even risking their own safety.
Brother Franz actually was arrested while meeting with the brothers in Barcelona, Spain.
Well, these schedules they kept, they must have been exhausting.
If a country under ban was on the itinerary, they might pay a visit to government officials to promote legalization of our work.
Well, in our visit at all of the branches to encourage the brothers, and he talked with the missionaries.
And in the 1950s, there was much growth, and that proved to be too much for him alone.
So he decided that it would be appropriate to train some of us brothers so that we could assist in that work.
And see that the shepherding is done, and that the work in the branches is done in unity.
On the service tour of Africa in 1963, Brother Henshel attended the convention at Gabbana, Liberia.
Suddenly soldiers invaded the convention. They arrested Brother Henshel and others.
He was mistreated beaten with a rifle but to the point where he thought he was going to die.
But he remained on the scene to encourage and assist the brothers to be faithful to avoid compromise.
And when finally he was released, instead of going home, he completed his assignment to visit other branches
and upon return never acted the part of a hero or a martyr.
It was just the cost of doing the Lord's business.
Well, the headquarters represented us wanted the best for delegates to a convention.
Brothers nor Henshel were known to personally inspect venues and even negotiate contracts.
In more recent times, Brother Jarrah's personally visited hotels to make sure that there was a proper standard of comfort and cleanliness he even tested out the beds.
Brother Nor was well aware of the situation that the brothers were facing in the Soviet Union.
He wrote many letters in which he called on the brothers to live in harmony under the direction of the organization.
One such letter fell into the hands of the KGB. They altered it.
But when Brother Nor was told about it, he drew the brother's attention to the spirit of the letter.
Because from the spirit of the letter, it would be evident immediately whether it was a letter from the organization or a forged letter.
This was because the spirit of the organization serves to unite the brothers, not divide them.
All this attention to the international activity was taking place while simultaneously directing the work and expansion of World Headquarters,
handling various legal issues, organizing and speaking at conventions throughout the United States,
Gilead school lectures and graduation, annual meeting programs,
and all the while taking care of their own spiritual well-being and that of their wife, if married.
The next few decades would see even greater growth, but greater challenges.